Technical Summary
IPCC
AR6 WG III
Box TS.
1
Figure 1
:
Global carbon emissions in 2020 and th
e impact of COVID
-
19
Box TS.1 Figure 1 legend:
Panel
a depicts carbon emissions from fossil fuel and industry over the past
five
decades. The single year declines in emissions following major economic and geopolitical events are shown, as
well as the decline recorded in
five
different datasets for emissions in 2020 compared to 2019. Panel b depicts
the perturbation of daily carbon
emissions in 2020 compared to 2019, showing the impact of COVID
-
19
lockdown policies. {Figure 2.6}
The lockdowns implemented in many countries accelerated some specific trends,
such as the
uptake in
urban cycling. The acceptability of collective social cha
nge over a longer term towards less resource
-
intensive lifestyles, however, depends on the social mandate for change. This mandate can be built
through public participation, discussion and debate, to produce recommendations that inform
policymaking. {Box 5
.2}
Most countries were forced to undertake unprecedented levels of short
-
term public expenditures in
2021. This is
expected
to slow economic growth and may squeeze financial resources for mitigation
and relevant investments in the near future. Pandemic r
esponses have increased sovereign debt across
countries in all income bands and the sharp increase in most developing economies and regions has
caused debt distress, widening the gap in developing countries’ access to capital
.
{15.6.3}
The wider overall re
duction in energy investment has prompted a relative shift towards low carbon
investment particularly for major future investment decisions by the private sector
{15.2.1, 15.3.1,
15.6.1}. Some countries and regions have prioritised green stimulus expenditu
res for example as part
of a ‘Green New Deal’ {Box 13.1}. This is motivated by assessments that investing in new growth
industries can boost the macroeconomic effectiveness (‘multipliers’) of public spending, crowd
-
in and
revive private investment, whilst
also delivering on mitigation commitments
.
{15.2.3}
The impacts of COVID
-
19 may have temporarily set back development and the delivery of many SDGs.
It also distracts political and financial capacity away from efforts to accelerate climate change
mitigatio
n and shift development pathways to increased sustainability. Yet, studies of previous post
-