literature.
Panel (a) shows the demand side potential of socio-cultural factors and infrastructure use. The median value of
land-use change through reforestation of freed up land. If changes in land use pattern enabled by this change in
direct emissions (mostly non-CO
2
) reduction through socio-cultural factors is 1.9 GtCO
2
-eq without considering
potential in industry, land transport and buildings end-use sectors through demand-side options. Key options are
food demand are considered, the indicative potential could reach 7 GtCO
2
-eq. Panel (b) illustrates mitigation
presented in the summary table below the figure and the details are in Table SM5.2.
Panel (c) visualizes how sectoral demand-side mitigation options (presented in Panel (b)) change demand on the
electricity distribution system. Electricity accounts for an increasing proportion of final energy demand in 2050
(additional electricity bar) in line with multiple bottom-up studies (detailed list is in Table SM5.3), and Chapters
6 (6.6). These studies are used to compute the impact of end-use electrification which increases overall electricity
demand. Some of the projected increase in electricity demand can be avoided through demand-side mitigation
options in the domains of socio-cultural factors and infrastructure use in end-use electricity use in buildings,
industry, and land transport found in literature based on bottom-up assessments. Dark grey columns show the
emissions that cannot be avoided through demand-side mitigation options.
{5.3, Figure 5.7, Supplementary Material 5.II}
C.11 The deployment of CDR to counterbalance hard-to-abate residual emissions is
unavoidable if net zero CO
2
or GHG emissions are to be achieved. The scale and timing of
deployment will depend on the trajectories of gross emission reductions in different sectors.
Upscaling the deployment of CDR depends on developing effective approaches to address
feasibility and sustainability constraints especially at large scales. (
high confidence
) {3.4, 7.4, 12.3,
Cross-Chapter Box 8 in Chapter 12}
C.11.1
CDR refers to anthropogenic activities that remove CO
2
from the atmosphere and store it
durably in geological, terrestrial, or ocean reservoirs, or in products. CDR methods vary in terms of
their maturity, removal process, timescale of carbon storage, storage medium, mitigation potential, cost,
co-benefits, impacts and risks, and governance requirements (
high confidence
).
Specifically, maturity
ranges from lower maturity (e.g., ocean alkalinisation) to higher maturity (e.g., reforestation); removal
and storage potential ranges from lower potential (<1 Gt CO
2
yr
-1
, e.g., blue carbon management) to
higher potential (>3 Gt CO
2
yr
-1
, e.g., agroforestry); costs range from lower cost (e.g., 45-100 USD/tCO
2
for soil carbon sequestration) to higher cost (e.g., 100-300 USD/tCO
2
for DACCS) (
medium
confidence
). Estimated storage timescales vary from decades to centuries for methods that store carbon
in vegetation and through soil carbon management, to ten thousand years or more for methods that
store carbon in geological formations (
high confidence
). The processes by which CO
2
is removed from
the atmosphere are categorised as biological, geochemical or chemical. Afforestation, reforestation,
improved forest management, agroforestry and soil carbon sequestration are currently the only widely
practiced CDR methods (
high confidence
). {7.4, 7.6, 12.3, Table 12.6, Table TS.7, Cross-Chapter Box
8 in Chapter 12, WG I 5.6}
C.11.2
The impacts, risks and co-benefits of CDR deployment for ecosystems, biodiversity and people
will be highly variable depending on the method, site-specific context, implementation and scale (
high
confidence
). Reforestation, improved forest management, soil carbon sequestration, peatland
restoration and blue carbon management are examples of methods that can enhance biodiversity and
ecosystem functions, employment and local livelihoods, depending on context (
high confidence
). In
contrast, afforestation or production of biomass crops for BECCS or biochar, when poorly implemented,
can have adverse socio-economic and environmental impacts, including on biodiversity, food and water
security, local livelihoods and on the rights of Indigenous Peoples, especially if implemented at large
scales and where land tenure is insecure (
high confidence
). Ocean fertilisation, if implemented, could
Subject to copyedit
SPM-47
Total pages: 63