cooperation exist, including in the implementation of elements of the UNFCCC and the Paris
Agreement as per the literature assessed, such as in relation to technology development and transfer,
and finance (
high confidence
). International cooperation on innovation works best when tailored to
specific institutional and capability contexts, when it benefits local value chains, when partners
collaborate equitably and on voluntary and mutually agreed terms, when all relevant voices are heard,
and when capacity building is an integral part of the effort (
medium confidence
). Support to strengthen
technological innovation systems and innovation capabilities, including through financial support in
developing countries would enhance engagement in and improve international cooperation on
innovation (
high confidence
). {4.4, 14.2, 14.4, 16.3, 16.5, 16.6}
E.6.3
Transnational partnerships can stimulate policy development, low-emissions technology
diffusion and emission reductions by linking sub-national and other actors, including cities, regions,
non-governmental organisations and private sector entities, and by enhancing interactions between state
and non-state actors. While this potential of transnational partnerships is evident, uncertainties remain
over their costs, feasibility, and effectiveness. Transnational networks of city governments are leading
to enhanced ambition and policy development and a growing exchange of experience and best practices
(
medium confidence
). {8.5, 11.6, 14.5, 16.5, Cross-Chapter Box 12 in Chapter 16}
E.6.4
International environmental and sectoral agreements, institutions, and initiatives are helping,
and in some cases may help, to stimulate low GHG emissions investment and reduce emissions.
Agreements addressing ozone depletion and transboundary air pollution are contributing to mitigation,
and in other areas, such as atmospheric emissions of mercury, may contribute to mitigation (
high
confidence)
. Trade rules have the potential to stimulate international adoption of mitigation
technologies and policies, but may also limit countries’ ability to adopt trade-related climate policies
(
medium confidence
). Current sectoral levels of ambition vary, with emission reduction aspirations in
international aviation and shipping lower than in many other sectors (
medium confidence
). {14.5, 14.6}
Subject to copyedit
SPM-63
Total pages: 63