development
D.1 Accelerated and equitable climate action in mitigating, and adapting to, climate change
impacts is critical to sustainable development.
Climate change actions can also result in some
trade-offs. The trade-offs of individual options could be managed through policy design. The
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted under the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development can be used as a basis for evaluating climate action in the context of sustainable
development. (
high confidence
) (Figure SPM.8) {1.6, 3.7, 17.3, Figure TS.29}
D.1.1
Human-induced climate change is a consequence of more than a century of net GHG emissions
from unsustainable energy use, land-use and land use change, lifestyle and patterns of consumption and
production. Without urgent, effective and equitable mitigation actions, climate change increasingly
threatens the health and livelihoods of people around the globe, ecosystem health and biodiversity.
There are both synergies and trade-offs between climate action and the pursuit of other SDGs.
Accelerated and equitable climate action in mitigating, and adapting to, climate change impacts is
critical to sustainable development. (
high confidence
) {1.6, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in Chapter 4, 7.2, 7.3,
17.3, WGI, WGII}
D.1.2
Synergies and trade-offs depend on the development context including inequalities, with
consideration of climate justice. They also depend on means of implementation, intra- and inter-sectoral
interactions,
cooperation between countries and regions, the sequencing, timing and stringency of
mitigation actions, governance, and policy design. Maximising synergies and avoiding trade-offs pose
particular challenges for developing countries, vulnerable populations, and Indigenous Peoples with
limited institutional, technological and financial capacity, and with constrained social, human, and
economic capital. Trade-offs can be evaluated and minimized by giving emphasis to capacity building,
finance, governance, technology transfer, investments, and development and social equity
considerations with meaningful participation of Indigenous Peoples and vulnerable populations. (
high
confidence
) {1.6, 1.7, 3.7, 5.2, 5.6, 7.4, 7.6, 17.4}
D.1.3
There are potential synergies between sustainable development and energy efficiency and
renewable energy, urban planning with more green spaces, reduced air pollution, and demand side
mitigation including shifts to balanced, sustainable healthy diets (
high confidence
). Electrification
combined with low GHG energy, and shifts to public transport can enhance health, employment, and
can elicit energy security and deliver equity (
high confidence
). In industry, electrification and circular
material flows contribute to reduced environmental pressures and increased economic activity and
employment. However, some industrial options could impose high costs (
medium confidence
). (Figure
SPM.8) {5.2, 8.2, 11.3, 11.5, 17.3, Figure TS.29}
D.1.4
Land-based options such as reforestation and forest conservation, avoided deforestation and
restoration and conservation of natural ecosystems and biodiversity, improved sustainable forest
management, agroforestry, soil carbon management and options that reduce CH
4
and N
2
O emissions in
agriculture from livestock and soil, can have multiple synergies with the SDGs. These include
enhancing sustainable agricultural productivity and resilience, food security, providing additional
biomass for human use, and addressing land degradation. Maximising synergies and managing trade-
offs depend on specific practices, scale of implementation, governance, capacity building, integration
with existing land-use, and the involvement of local communities and Indigenous Peoples and through
benefit sharing supported by frameworks such as Land Degradation Neutrality within the UNCCD.
(
high confidence
) {3.7, 7.4, 12.5, 17.3}
Subject to copyedit
SPM-52
Total pages: 63