9.5, 9.6, 9.7}
FOOTNOTE 59
: Integration of renewable energy solutions refers to the integration of solutions such
as solar photovoltaics, small wind turbines, solar thermal collectors, and biomass boilers.
C.7.3
By 2050, bottom-up studies show that up to 61% (8.2 GtCO
2
) of global building emissions
could be mitigated. Sufficiency policies [FOOTNOTE 60] that avoid the demand for energy and
materials contribute 10% to this potential, energy efficiency policies contribute 42%, and renewable
energy policies 9%. The largest share of the mitigation potential of new buildings is available in
developing countries while in developed countries the highest mitigation potential is within the retrofit
of existing buildings. The 2020-2030 decade is critical for accelerating the learning of know-how,
building the technical and institutional capacity, setting the appropriate governance structures, ensuring
the flow of finance, and in developing the skills needed to fully capture the mitigation potential of
buildings.
(high confidence)
{9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 9.6, 9.7, 9.9}
FOOTNOTE 60
: Sufficiency policies are a set of measures and daily practices that avoid demand for
energy , materials, land and water while delivering human wellbeing for all within planetary
boundaries.
C.8 Demand-side options and low-GHG emissions technologies can reduce transport sector
emissions in developed countries and limit emissions growth in developing countries (
high
confidence
). Demand-focused interventions can reduce demand for all transport services and
support the shift to more energy efficient transport modes (
medium confidence
). Electric vehicles
powered by low emissions
electricity offer the largest decarbonisation potential for land-based
transport, on a life cycle basis (
high confidence
). Sustainable biofuels can offer additional
mitigation benefits in land-based transport in the short and medium term (
medium confidence
).
Sustainable biofuels, low emissions hydrogen, and derivatives (including synthetic fuels) can
support mitigation of CO
2
emissions from shipping, aviation, and heavy-duty land transport but
require production process improvements and cost reductions (
medium confidence
). Many
mitigation strategies in the transport sector would have various co-benefits, including air quality
improvements, health benefits, equitable access to transportation services, reduced congestion,
and reduced material demand
(high confidence)
. {10.2, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.7}
C.8.1
In scenarios that limit warming to 1.5°C (>50%) with no or limited overshoot, global transport-
related CO
2
emissions fall by 59% [42–68% interquartile range] by 2050 relative to modelled 2020
emissions, but with regionally differentiated trends (
high confidence
). In global modelled scenarios that
limit warming to 2°C (>67%), transport related CO
2
emissions are projected to decrease by 29% [14-
44% interquartile range] by 2050 compared to modelled 2020 emissions. In both categories of scenarios,
the transport sector
likely
does not reach zero CO
2
emissions by 2100 so negative emissions are
likely
needed to counterbalance residual CO
2
emissions from the sector
(high confidence)
. {3.4, 10.7}
C.8.2
Changes in urban form (e.g., density, land use mix, connectivity, and accessibility) in
combination with programmes that encourage changes in consumer behaviour (e.g., transport pricing)
could reduce transport related greenhouse gas emissions in developed countries and slow growth in
emissions in developing countries (
high confidence
). Investments in public inter- and intra-city
transport and active transport infrastructure (e.g., bike and pedestrian pathways) can further support the
shift to less GHG-intensive transport modes (
high confidence
). Combinations of systemic changes
including, teleworking, digitalisation, dematerialisation, supply chain management, and smart and
Subject to copyedit
SPM-41
Total pages: 63