Chapter 1
IPCC
AR6 WGIII
What the IMPs do and don’t do.
The I
M
Ps are, as their name implies
,
a set of
scenarios
meant to
illustrate some important themes that run through the entire
WGIII
assessment. They illustrate that
the
climate outcomes that the individuals and society will f
ace
in the century ahead depend on
individual
and societal
choices In addition, they illustrate that there are multiple ways to successful achievement
of Paris
long
-
term
temperature goals
.
IMPs
are not intended to be comprehensive. They are not intended to
illustrate all possible themes in
this report. They do not, for example attempt to illustrate the range of alternative socioeconomic
pathways against which efforts to implement Paris goals may be set, or
to
reflect variations in potential
regional develop
ment pathways. They do not explore issues around income distribution or
environmental justice, but assume implicitly that
where
and
how
action occurs can be separated from
who pays, in ways to adequately address such issues. They are essentially pathways
o
f technological
evolution and demand shifts reflecting
broad global trends in social choice. The
IMPs
do not
directly
assess issues of realization linked
to
the “drivers and constraints” summarized in our previous section,
and the quantifications use, for
the most part, models that are grounded mainly in the Aggregate
Economics Frameworks (section 7.1). As such they reflect primarily the geophysical, economic and
technological
Dimensions of Assessment
, but can be assessed in relation to the full set of Feas
ibility
criteria (section 1.8.1).
Together the IMPs provide illustrations of potential future developments that can be shaped by human
choices, including: Where are current policies and pledges leading? What is needed to reach specific
temperature goals u
nder varying assumptions? What are the consequences of different strategies to meet
climate targets (i.e. demand
-
side strategy, a renewable energy strategy or a strategy with a role for net
negative emissions)? What are the consequences of delay? What are
the implications for other SDGs of
various climate mitigation pathways?
1.6
Achieving mitigation in the context of sustainable development
This chapter now sets out appro
aches to understanding the mitigation challenge, working from its broad
location in the context of wider aspirations for sustainable development, then identifying specific
analytic approaches, before summarising the corresponding main dimensions used for a
ssessment of
options and pathways in much of the report.
1.6.1
The Climate Change and Development Connection
Climate
change
mitigation is one of many goals that societies pursue in the context of sustainable
development, as evidenced by the wide range of
the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Climate
change and sustainable development as well as development more broadly,
are interwoven along
multiple and complex lines of relationship
(Fankhauser 2016; Gomez
-
Echeverri 2018a; Okereke and
Massaquoi 2017; Okereke et al. 2009)
, as highlighted in several previous IPCC reports
(IPCC 2007,
2019a, 2018b, 2011a, 2014a)
. With its significant negative impact on natural systems, food security and
infrastructure, loss of lives and territories, species extinction, co
nflict health, among several other risks,
climate change poses a serious threat to development and wellbeing in both rich and poor countries
(IPCC 2019b, 2018b, 2007, 2011a
, 2014a)
. Without serious efforts at mitigation and adaptation, climate
change could push millions further into poverty and limit the opportunities for economic development
(Chapter 4 and 17). It follows that ambitious climate mitigation is necessary t
o secure a safe climate
within which development and wellbeing can be pursued and sustained.
At the same time, rapid and largescale economic development
(
which has in the past driven climate
change
through land use change and dependence on fossil fuels)
,
is widely seen as
needed to improve
global wellbeing and lift millions especially in low
-
and middle
-
income countries out of poverty
(Baarsch et al. 2020; Lu et al. 2019; Mugambiwa and Tirivangasi
2017; Chen et al. 2017; See Figure
Do Not Cite, Quote or Distribute
1
-
38
Total pages:
106