SM6, Table SM8.2, Table SM9.1, Table SM12.B}
E.1.3
Feasibility depends on the scale and speed of implementation. Most options face barriers when
they are implemented rapidly at a large scale, but the scale at which barriers manifest themselves varies.
Strengthened and coordinated near-term actions in cost-effective modelled global pathways that limit
warming to 2°C (>67%) or lower, reduce the overall risks to the feasibility of the system transitions,
compared to modelled pathways with relatively delayed or uncoordinated action.[FOOTNOTE 74]
(
high confidence
) {3.8, 6.4, 10.8, 12.3}
FOOTNOTE
74: The future feasibility challenges described in the modelled pathways may differ from
the real-world feasibility experiences of the past.
E.2 In all countries, mitigation efforts embedded within the wider development context can
increase the pace, depth and breadth of emissions reductions (
medium confidence
). Policies that
shift development pathways towards sustainability can broaden the portfolio of available
mitigation responses, and enable the pursuit of synergies with development objectives (
medium
confidence
). Actions can be taken now to shift development pathways and accelerate mitigation
and transitions across systems (
high confidence
). {4.3, 4.4, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in Chapter 4, 5.2,
5.4, 13.9, 14.5, 15.6, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5}
E.2.1
Current development pathways may create behavioural, spatial, economic and social barriers
to accelerated mitigation at all scales (
high confidence
). Choices made by policymakers, citizens, the
private sector and other stakeholders influence societies’ development pathways (
high confidence
).
Actions that steer, for example, energy and land systems transitions, economy-wide structural change,
and behaviour change, can shift development pathways towards sustainability [FOOTNOTE 75]
(
medium confidence
). {4.3, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in Chapter 4, 5.4, 13.9}
FOOTNOTE
75: Sustainability may be interpreted differently in various contexts as societies pursue
a variety of sustainable development objectives.
E.2.2
Combining mitigation with policies to shift development pathways, such as broader sectoral
policies, policies that induce lifestyle or behaviour changes, financial regulation, or macroeconomic
policies can overcome barriers and open up a broader range of mitigation options (
high confidence
). It
can also facilitate the combination of mitigation and other development goals (
high confidence
). For
example, measures promoting walkable urban areas combined with electrification and renewable
energy can create health co-benefits from cleaner air and benefits from enhanced mobility (
high
confidence
). Coordinated housing policies that broaden relocation options can make mitigation
measures in transport more effective (
medium confidence
). {3.2, 4.3, 4.4, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in
Chapter 4, 5.3, 8.2, 8.4}
E.2.3
Institutional and regulatory capacity, innovation, finance, improved governance and
collaboration across scales, and multi-objective policies enable enhanced mitigation and shifts in
development pathways. Such interventions can be mutually reinforcing and establish positive feedback
mechanisms, resulting in accelerated mitigation. (
high confidence
) {4.4, 5.4, Figure 5.14, 5.6, 9.9, 13.9,
14.5, 15.6, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5, Cross-Chapter Box 12 in Chapter 16}
E.2.4
Enhanced action on all the above enabling conditions can be taken now (
high confidence
). In
some situations, such as with innovation in technology at an early stage of development and some
changes in behaviour towards low-emissions, because the enabling conditions may take time to be
established, action in the near-term can yield accelerated mitigation in the mid-term (
medium
Subject to copyedit
SPM-58
Total pages: 63