Indirect emissions represent upstream emissions due to industrial processes and energy conversion, transmission
and distribution. In addition, the contributions from the LULUCF sector and reductions from non-CO
2
emissions
sources (green and grey bars) are displayed.
{3.3, 3.4}
C.4 Reducing GHG emissions across the full energy sector requires major transitions,
including a substantial reduction in overall fossil fuel use, the deployment of low-emission energy
sources, switching to alternative energy carriers, and energy efficiency and conservation. The
continued installation of unabated fossil fuel [FOOTNOTE 55] infrastructure will ‘lock-in’ GHG
emissions. (
high confidence
) {2.7, 6.6, 6.7, 16.4}
C.4.1
Net-zero CO
2
energy systems entail: a substantial reduction in overall fossil fuel use, minimal
use of unabated fossil fuels, and use of CCS in the remaining fossil system [FOOTNOTE 55]; electricity
systems that emit no net CO
2
; widespread electrification of the energy system including end uses;
energy carriers such as sustainable biofuels, low-emissions hydrogen, and derivatives in applications
less amenable to electrification; energy conservation and efficiency; and greater physical, institutional,
and operational integration across the energy system. CDR will be needed to counter-balance residual
emissions in the energy sector. The most appropriate strategies depend on national and regional
circumstances, including enabling conditions and technology availability. (
high confidence
) {3.4, 6.6,
11.3, 16.4}
FOOTNOTE 55:
In this context, ‘unabated fossil fuels’ refers to fossil fuels produced and used without
interventions that substantially reduce the amount of GHG emitted throughout the life-cycle; for
example, capturing 90% or more from power plants, or 50-80% of fugitive methane emissions from
energy supply. {Box 6.5, 11.3}
C.4.2
Unit cost reductions in key technologies, notably wind power, solar power, and storage, have
increased the economic attractiveness of low-emission energy sector transitions through 2030.
Maintaining emission-intensive systems may, in some regions and sectors, be more expensive than
transitioning to low emission systems. Low-emission energy sector transitions will have multiple co-
benefits, including improvements in air quality and health. The long-term economic attractiveness of
deploying energy system mitigation options depends,
inter alia
, on policy design and implementation,
technology availability and performance, institutional capacity, equity, access to finance, and public
and political support. (
high confidence
) {Figure SPM3, 3.4, 6.4, 6.6, 6.7, 13.7}
C.4.3
Electricity systems powered predominantly by renewables are becoming increasingly viable.
Electricity systems in some countries and regions are already predominantly powered by renewables. It
will be more challenging to supply the entire energy system with renewable energy. Even though
operational, technological, economic, regulatory, and social challenges remain, a variety of systemic
solutions to accommodate large shares of renewables in the energy system have emerged. A broad
portfolio of options such as, integrating systems, coupling sectors, energy storage, smart grids, demand-
side management, sustainable biofuels, electrolytic hydrogen and derivatives, and others will ultimately
be needed to accommodate large shares of renewables in energy systems. (
high confidence
) {Box 6.8,
6.4, 6.6}
C.4.4
Limiting global warming to 2⁰C or below will leave a substantial amount of fossil fuels
unburned and could strand considerable fossil fuel infrastructure
(high confidence)
. Depending on its
availability, CCS could allow fossil fuels to be used longer, reducing stranded assets (
high confidence
).
The combined global discounted value of the unburned fossil fuels and stranded fossil fuel infrastructure
Subject to copyedit
SPM-36
Total pages: 63