The development pathways taken by countries at all stages of economic development impact GHG
emissions and hence shape mitigation challenges and opportunities, which vary across countries
and regions. Literature explores how development choices and the establishment of enabling
conditions for action and support influence the feasibility and the cost of limiting emissions {1, 3,
4, 5, 13, 15, 16}. Literature highlights that climate change mitigation action designed and
conducted in the context of sustainable development, equity, and poverty eradication, and rooted
in the development aspirations of the societies within which they take place, will be more
acceptable, durable and effective {1, 3, 4, 5}. This report covers mitigation from both targeted
measures, and from policies and governance with other primary objectives.
•
New approaches in the assessment
. In addition to the sectoral and systems chapters {3, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12}, the report includes, for the first time in a WG III report, chapters dedicated to
demand for services, and social aspects of mitigation {5, Box TS.11}, and to innovation,
technology development and transfer {16}. The assessment of future pathways in this report covers
near term (to 2030), medium term (up to 2050), and long term (to 2100) timescales, combining
assessment of existing pledges and actions {4, 5}, with an assessment of emissions reductions, and
their implications, associated with long-term temperature outcomes up to the year 2100
{3}.[FOOTNOTE 4] The assessment of modelled global pathways addresses ways of shifting
development pathways towards sustainability. Strengthened collaboration between IPCC Working
Groups is reflected in Cross-Working Group boxes that integrate physical science, climate risks
and adaptation, and the mitigation of climate change.
[FOOTNOTE 5]
FOOTNOTE 4
: The term ‘temperature’ is used in reference to “global surface temperatures”
throughout this SPM as defined in footnote 8 of WG I SPM. See FOOTNOTE 14 of Table SPM.1.
Emission pathways and associated temperature changes are calculated using various forms of
models, as summarised in Box SPM.1 and Chapter 3 and discussed in Annex III.
FOOTNOTE 5
: Namely: Economic Benefits from Avoided Climate Impacts along Long-Term
Mitigation Pathways {Cross-Working Group Box 1 in Chapter 3}; Urban: Cities and Climate
Change {Cross-Working Group Box 2 in Chapter 8}; and Mitigation and Adaptation via the
Bioeconomy {Cross-Working Group Box 3 in Chapter 12}.
•
Increasing diversity of analytic frameworks from multiple disciplines including social
sciences.
This report identifies multiple analytic frameworks to assess the drivers of, barriers to
and options for, mitigation action. These include: economic efficiency including the benefits of
avoided impacts; ethics and equity; interlinked technological and social transition processes; and
socio-political frameworks, including institutions and governance {1, 3, 13, Cross-Chapter Box 12
in Chapter 16}. These help to identify risks and opportunities for action including co-benefits and
just and equitable transitions at local, national and global scales. {1, 3, 4, 5, 13, 14, 16, 17}
Section B of this Summary for Policymakers (SPM) assesses
Recent developments and current trends
,
including data uncertainties and gaps
.
Section C,
System transformations to limit global warming
,
identifies emission pathways and alternative mitigation portfolios consistent with limiting global
warming to different levels, and assesses specific mitigation options at the sectoral and system level.
Section D addresses
Linkages between mitigation, adaptation, and sustainable development
. Section E,
Strengthening the response,
assesses knowledge of how enabling conditions of institutional design,
policy, finance, innovation and governance arrangements can contribute to climate change mitigation
in the context of sustainable development.
Subject to copyedit
SPM-3
Total pages: 63