CH18}
E.
Strengthening the response
E.1 There are mitigation options which are feasible [FOOTNOTE 72] to deploy at scale in the
near term. Feasibility differs across sectors and regions, and according to capacities and the speed
and scale of implementation. Barriers to feasibility would need to be reduced or removed, and
enabling conditions [FOOTNOTE 73] strengthened to deploy mitigation options at scale. These
barriers and enablers include geophysical, environmental-ecological, technological, and economic
factors, and especially institutional and socio-cultural factors. Strengthened near-term action
beyond the NDCs (announced prior to UNFCCC COP26) can reduce and/or avoid long-term
feasibility challenges of global modelled pathways that limit warming to 1.5
°C (>50%) with no
or limited overshoot.
(high confidence)
{3.8, 6.4, 8.5, 9.9, 10.8, 12.3, Figure TS.31, Annex II Part
IV Section 11}
FOOTNOTE 72: In this report, the term ‘feasibility’ refers to the potential for a mitigation or adaptation
option to be implemented. Factors influencing feasibility are context-dependent and may change over
time. Feasibility depends on geophysical, environmental-ecological, technological, economic, socio-
cultural and institutional factors that enable or constrain the implementation of an option. The feasibility
of options may change when different options are combined and increase when enabling conditions are
strengthened.
FOOTNOTE 73: In this report, the term ‘enabling conditions’ refers to conditions that enhance the
feasibility of adaptation and mitigation options. Enabling conditions include finance, technological
innovation, strengthening policy instruments, institutional capacity, multi-level governance and
changes in human behaviour and lifestyles.
E.1.1
Several mitigation options, notably solar energy, wind energy, electrification of urban systems,
urban green infrastructure, energy efficiency, demand side management, improved forest- and
crop/grassland management, and reduced food waste and loss, are technically viable, are becoming
increasingly cost effective, and are generally supported by the public. This enables deployment in many
regions. (
high confidence
) While many mitigation options have environmental co-benefits, including
improved air quality and reducing toxic waste, many also have adverse environmental impacts, such as
reduced biodiversity, when applied at very large scale, for example very large scale bioenergy or large
scale use of battery storage, that would have to be managed (
medium confidence
). Almost all mitigation
options face institutional barriers that need to be addressed to enable their application at scale (
medium
confidence
). {6.4, Figure 6.19, 7.4, 8.5, Figure 8.19, 9.9, Figure 9.20, 10.8, Figure 10.23, 12.3, Figure
12.4, Figure TS.31}
E.1.2
The feasibility of mitigation options varies according to context and time. For example, the
institutional capacity to support deployment varies across countries; the feasibility of options that
involve large-scale land use changes varies across regions; spatial planning has a higher potential at
early stages of urban development; the potential of geothermal is site specific; and capacities, cultural
and local conditions can either inhibit or enable demand-side responses. The deployment of solar and
wind energy has been assessed to become increasingly feasible over time. The feasibility of some
options can increase when combined or integrated, such as using land for both agriculture and
Subject to copyedit
SPM-57
Total pages: 63