effects across sectors and reduce GHG emissions both within and outside a city’s administrative
boundaries. The capacity of cities to develop and implement mitigation strategies varies with the
broader regulatory and institutional settings, as well as enabling conditions, including access to financial
and technological resources, local governance capacity, engagement of civil society, and municipal
budgetary powers. (
very high confidence
)
.
{Figure 5.7, Table SM5.2, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6, 13.2, 13.3, 13.5,
13.7, Cross-Chapter Box 9}
C.6.4
A growing number of cities are setting climate targets, including net-zero GHG targets. Given
the regional and global reach of urban consumption patterns and supply chains, the full potential for
reducing consumption-based urban emissions to net-zero GHG can be met only when emissions beyond
cities’ administrative boundaries are also addressed. The effectiveness of these strategies depends on
cooperation and coordination with national and sub-national governments, industry, and civil society,
and whether cities have adequate capacity to plan and implement mitigation strategies. Cities can play
a positive role in reducing emissions across supply chains that extend beyond cities’ administrative
boundaries, for example through building codes and the choice of construction materials. (
very high
confidence
) {8.4, Box 8.4, 8.5, 9.6, 9.9, 13.5, 13.9}
C.7. In modelled global scenarios, existing buildings, if retrofitted, and buildings yet to be
built, are projected to approach net zero GHG emissions in 2050 if policy packages, which
combine ambitious sufficiency, efficiency, and renewable energy measures, are effectively
implemented and barriers to decarbonisation are removed. Low ambitious policies increase the
risk of lock-in buildings in carbon for decades while well-designed and effectively implemented
mitigation interventions, in both new buildings and existing ones if retrofitted, have significant
potential to contribute to achieving SDGs in all regions while adapting buildings to future climate.
(
high confidence
) {9.1, 9.3, 9.4, 9.5, 9.6, 9.9}
C.7.1
In 2019, global direct and indirect GHG emissions from buildings and emissions from cement
and steel use for building construction and renovation were 12 GtCO
2
-eq. These emissions include
indirect emissions from offsite generation of electricity and heat, direct emissions produced onsite and
emissions from cement and steel used for building construction and renovation. In 2019, global direct
and indirect emissions from non-residential buildings increased by about 55% and those from
residential buildings increased by about 50% compared to 1990. The latter increase, according to the
decomposition analysis, was mainly driven by the increase of the floor area per capita, population
growth and the increased use of emission-intensive electricity and heat while efficiency improvements
have partly decreased emissions. There are great differences in the contribution of each of these drivers
to regional emissions. (
high confidence
)
{9.3}
C.7.2
Integrated design approaches to the construction and retrofit of buildings have led to increasing
examples of zero energy or zero carbon buildings in several regions. However, the low renovation rates
and low ambition of retrofitted buildings have hindered the decrease of emissions. Mitigation
interventions at the design stage include buildings typology, form, and multi-functionality to allow for
adjusting the size of buildings to the evolving needs of their users and repurposing unused existing
buildings to avoid using GHG-intensive materials and additional land. Mitigation interventions include:
at the construction phase, low-emission construction materials, highly efficient building envelope and
the integration of renewable energy solutions[FOOTNOTE 59]; at the use phase, highly efficient
appliances/ equipment, the optimisation of the use of buildings and the supply with low-emission energy
Subject to copyedit
SPM-40
Total pages: 63