relatively short time frame, for example the provision of energy related information, advice and
feedback to promote energy saving behaviour (
high confidence
). {4.4, 5.4, Figure 5.14, 5.6, 6.7, 9.9,
13.9, 14.5, 15.6, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5, Cross-Chapter Box 12 in Chapter 16}
E.3
Climate governance, acting through laws, strategies and institutions, based on national
circumstances, supports mitigation by providing frameworks through which diverse actors
interact, and a basis for policy development and implementation (
medium confidence
). Climate
governance is most effective when it integrates across multiple policy domains, helps realise
synergies and minimize trade-offs, and connects national and sub-national policy-making levels
(
high confidence
). Effective and equitable climate governance builds on engagement with civil
society actors, political actors, businesses, youth, labour, media, Indigenous Peoples and local
communities (
medium confidence).
{5.4, 5.6, 8.5, 9.9, 13.2, 13.7, 13.9}
E.3.1
Climate governance enables mitigation by providing an overall direction, setting targets,
mainstreaming climate action across policy domains, enhancing regulatory certainty, creating
specialised organisations and creating the context to mobilise finance
(medium confidence)
. These
functions can be promoted by climate-relevant laws, which are growing in number, or climate strategies,
among others, based on national and sub-national context (
medium confidence
). Framework laws set an
overarching legal basis, either operating through a target and implementation approach, or a sectoral
mainstreaming approach, or both, depending on national circumstance
(medium confidence)
. Direct
national and sub-national laws that explicitly target mitigation and indirect laws that impact emissions
through mitigation related policy domains have both been shown to be relevant to mitigation outcomes
(
medium confidence
). {13.2}
E.3.2
Effective national climate institutions address coordination across sectors, scales and actors,
build consensus for action among diverse interests, and inform strategy setting
(medium confidence)
.
These functions are often accomplished through independent national expert bodies, and high-level
coordinating bodies that transcend departmental mandates. Complementary sub-national institutions
tailor mitigation actions to local context and enable experimentation but can be limited by inequities
and resource and capacity constraints (
high confidence
). Effective governance requires adequate
institutional capacity at all levels (
high confidence
). {4.4, 8.5, 9.9, 11.3, 11.5, 11.6, 13.2, 13.5, 13.7,
13.9}
E.3.3
The extent to which civil society actors, political actors, businesses, youth, labour, media,
Indigenous Peoples, and local communities are engaged influences political support for climate change
mitigation and eventual policy outcomes. Structural factors of national circumstances and capabilities
(e.g., economic and natural endowments, political systems and cultural factors and gender
considerations) affect the breadth and depth of climate governance. Mitigation options that align with
prevalent ideas, values and beliefs are more easily adopted and implemented. Climate-related litigation,
for example by governments, private sector, civil society and individuals is growing, with a large
number of cases in some developed countries, and with a much smaller number in some developing
countries, and in some cases, has influenced the outcome and ambition of climate governance. (
medium
confidence
) {5.2, 5.4, 5.5, 5.6, 9.9, 13.3, 13.4}
E.4
Many regulatory and economic instruments have already been deployed successfully.
Instrument design can help address equity and other objectives. These instruments could support
deep emissions reductions and stimulate innovation if scaled up and applied more widely (
high
confidence
). Policy packages that enable innovation and build capacity are better able to support
Subject to copyedit
SPM-59
Total pages: 63