Technical Summary
IPCC
AR6 WG III
How to shift development pathways?
Shifting development paths is complex. Changes that involve ‘dissimilar, unfamiliar and more complex
science
-
based components’ take
more time, acceptance and legitimation and involve complex social
learning, even when they promise large gains.
Despite the complexities of the interactions that result in
patterns of development, history also shows that societies can influence the directi
on of development
pathways based on choices made by decision
-
makers, citizens, the private sector, and social
stakeholders. Shifts in development pathways result from both sustained political interventions and
bottom
-
up changes in public opinion. Collectiv
e action by individuals as part of social movements or
lifestyle changes underpins system change
.
{5.2.3, 5.4.1, 5.4.5}.
Sectoral transitions that aim to shift development pathways often have multiple objectives and deploy
a diverse mix of policies and ins
titutional measures. Context specific governance conditions can
significantly enable or disable sectoral transitions
{
Cross
-
Chapter Box
12
in Chapter 1
6}
.
The necessary transformational changes are
anticipated to be more acceptable if rooted in the
develop
ment aspirations of the economy and society within which they take place and may enable a
new social contract to address a complex set of inter
-
linkages across sectors, classes, and the whole
economy.
Taking advantage of windows of opportunity and disrupti
ons to mindsets and socio
-
technical
systems could advance deeper transformations.
How can shifts in development pathways be implemented by actors in different contexts?
Shifting development pathways to increased sustainability is a shared aspiration. Yet
since countries
differ in starting points (e.g., social, economic, cultural, political) and historical backgrounds, they have
different urgent needs in terms of facilitating the economic, social, and environmental dimensions of
sustainable development and
, therefore, give different priorities {4.3.2,
17
.1
}. The appropriate set of
policies to shift development pathways thus depends on national circumstances and capacities.
Shifting development pathways towards sustainability needs to be supported by multil
ateral
partnerships to strengthen suitable capacity, technological innovation
(
TS 6.5
)
, and financial flows
(
TS.
6.4
)
.
The international community can play a particularly key role by helping ensure the necessary broad
participation in climate
-
mitigat
ion efforts, including by countries at different development levels,
through sustained support for policies and partnerships that support shifting development pathways
towards sustainability while promoting equity and being mindful of different transition
capacities
.
{Chapter 4.3, 16.5, 16.6}