Chapter 2; this ensures internal consistency in assumptions about emission sources and activities, as
well as consistency with temperature projections based on the physical climate science assessment by
WG I. {Annex III.II.2.5}
These updated methods affect the categorisation of some scenarios. On average across scenarios, peak
global warming is projected to be lower by up to about 0.05[±0.1]°C than if the same scenarios were
evaluated using the SR1.5 methodology, and global warming in 2100 is projected to be lower by about
0.1[±0.1]°C. {Annex III.II.2.5.1, Annex III, Figure II.3}
Resulting changes to the emission characteristics of scenario categories described in Table SPM.1
interact with changes in the characteristics of the wider range of emission scenarios published since the
SR1.5. Proportionally more scenarios assessed in AR6 are designed to limit temperature overshoot and
more scenarios limit large-scale net negative CO
2
emissions than in SR1.5. As a result, AR6 scenarios
in the lowest temperature category (C1) generally reach net zero GHG emissions later in the 21st
century than scenarios in the same category assessed in SR1.5, and about half do not reach net zero
GHG by 2100. The rate of decline of GHG emissions in the near term by 2030 in category C1 scenarios
is very similar to the assessed rate in SR1.5, but absolute GHG emissions of category C1 scenarios in
AR6 are slightly higher in 2030 than in SR1.5, since the reductions start from a higher emissions level
in 2020. (Table SPM.1) {Annex III 2.5, 3.2, 3.3}
The large number of global emissions scenarios assessed, including 1202 scenarios with projected
global warming outcomes using climate emulators, come from a wide range of modelling approaches.
They include the five illustrative scenarios (Shared Socioeconomic Pathways; SSPs) assessed by WG I
for their climate outcomes but cover a wider and more varied set in terms of assumptions and modelled
outcomes. For this assessment, Illustrative Mitigation Pathways (IMPs) were selected from this larger
set to illustrate a range of different mitigation strategies that would be consistent with different warming
levels. The IMPs illustrate pathways that achieve deep and rapid emissions reductions through different
combinations of mitigation strategies. The IMPs are not intended to be comprehensive and do not
address all possible themes in the underlying report. They differ in terms of their focus, for example,
placing greater emphasis on renewables (IMP-Ren), deployment of carbon dioxide removal that result
in net negative global GHG emissions (IMP-Neg) and efficient resource use as well as shifts in
consumption patterns globally, leading to low demand for resources, while ensuring a high level of
services and satisfying basic needs (IMP-LD) (Figure SPM.5). Other IMPs illustrate the implications
of a less rapid introduction of mitigation measures followed by a subsequent gradual strengthening
(IMP-GS), and how shifting global pathways towards sustainable development, including by reducing
inequality, can lead to mitigation (IMP-SP). The IMPs reach different climate goals as indicated in
Table SPM.1 and Figure Box SPM.1.{1.5, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, Figure 3.7, Figure 3.8, Box 3.4, Annex
III.II.2.4}
<END BOX SPM.1 HERE>
C.2
Global net zero CO
2
emissions are reached in the early 2050s in modelled pathways that
limit warming to 1.5°C (>50%) with no or limited overshoot, and around the early 2070s in
modelled pathways that limit warming to 2°C (>67%). Many of these pathways continue to net
negative CO
2
emissions after the point of net zero. These pathways also include deep reductions
in other GHG emissions. The level of peak warming depends on cumulative CO
2
emissions until
the time of net zero CO
2
and the change in non-CO
2
climate forcers by the time of peaking. Deep
Subject to copyedit
SPM-30
Total pages: 63