industry emissions will entail coordinated action throughout value chains to promote
all
mitigation options, including
demand management, energy and materials efficiency, circular
material flows, as well as abatement technologies and transformational changes in production
processes. Progressing towards net zero GHG emissions from industry will be enabled by the
adoption of new production processes using low and zero GHG electricity, hydrogen, fuels, and
carbon management. (
high confidence
) {11.2, 11.3, 11.4, Box TS.4}
C.5.1
The use of steel, cement, plastics, and other materials is increasing globally, and in most
regions. There are many sustainable options for demand management, materials efficiency, and circular
material flows that can contribute to reduced emissions, but how these can be applied will vary across
regions and different materials. These options have a potential for being more used in industrial practice
and would need more attention from industrial policy. These options, as well as new production
technologies, are generally not considered in recent global scenarios nor in national economy-wide
scenarios due to relative newness. As a consequence, the mitigation potential in some scenarios is
underestimated compared to bottom-up industry-specific models. (
high confidence
) {3.4, 5.3, Figure
5.7, 11.2, Box 11.2, 11.3, 11.4, 11.5.2, 11.6}
C.5.2
For almost all basic materials ‒ primary metals [FOOTNOTE 56], building materials and
chemicals ‒ many low- to zero- GHG intensity production processes are at the
pilot
to
near-commercial
and in some cases
commercial
stage but not yet established industrial practice. Introducing new
sustainable basic materials production processes could increase production costs but, given the small
fraction of consumer cost based on materials, are expected to translate into minimal cost increases for
final consumers. Hydrogen direct reduction for primary steelmaking is
near-commercial
in some
regions. Until new chemistries are mastered, deep reduction of cement process emissions will rely on
already commercialised cementitious material substitution and the availability of CCS. Reducing
emissions from the production and use of chemicals would need to rely on a life cycle approach,
including increased plastics recycling, fuel and feedstock switching, and carbon sourced through
biogenic sources, and, depending on availability, CCU, direct air CO
2
capture, as well as CCS. Light
industry, mining and manufacturing have the potential to be decarbonised through available abatement
technologies (e.g., material efficiency, circularity), electrification (e.g., electrothermal heating, heat
pumps) and low- or zero- GHG emitting fuels (e.g., hydrogen, ammonia, and bio-based & other
synthetic fuels). (
high confidence
) {Table 11.4, Box 11.2, 11.3, 11.4}
FOOTNOTE 56
: Primary metals refers to virgin metals produced from ore.
C.5.3
Action to reduce industry sector emissions may change the location of GHG intensive industries
and the organisation of value chains.
Regions with abundant low GHG energy and feedstocks have the
potential to become exporters of hydrogen-based chemicals and materials processed using low-carbon
electricity and hydrogen. Such reallocation will have global distributional effects on employment and
economic structure. (
medium confidence
) {Box 11.1}
C.5.4
Emissions intensive and highly traded basic materials industries are exposed to international
competition, and international cooperation and coordination may be particularly important in enabling
change. For sustainable industrial transitions, broad and sequential national and sub-national policy
strategies reflecting regional contexts will be required. These may combine policy packages including:
transparent GHG accounting and standards; demand management; materials and energy efficiency
policies; R&D and niche markets for commercialisation of low emission materials and products;
economic and regulatory instruments to drive market uptake; high quality recycling, low-emissions
energy and other abatement infrastructure (e.g., for CCS); and socially inclusive phase-out plans of
emissions intensive facilities within the context of just transitions. The coverage of mitigation policies
Subject to copyedit
SPM-38
Total pages: 63