The top panel shows global costs per unit of energy (USD/MWh) for some rapidly changing mitigation
technologies. Solid blue lines indicate average unit cost in each year. Light blue shaded areas show the range
between the 5
th
and 95
th
percentiles in each year. Grey shading indicates the range of unit costs for new fossil fuel
(coal and gas) power in 2020 (corresponding to USD55–148 per MWh). In 2020, the levelised costs of energy
(LCOE) of the four renewable energy technologies could compete with fossil fuels in many places. For batteries,
costs shown are for 1 kWh of battery storage capacity; for the others, costs are LCOE, which includes installation,
capital, operations, and maintenance costs per MWh of electricity produced. The literature uses LCOE because it
allows consistent comparisons of cost trends across a diverse set of energy technologies to be made. However, it
does not include the costs of grid integration or climate impacts. Further, LCOE does not take into account other
environmental and social externalities that may modify the overall (monetary and non-monetary) costs of
technologies and alter their deployment.
The bottom panel shows cumulative global adoption for each technology, in GW of installed capacity for
renewable energy and in millions of vehicles for battery-electric vehicles. A vertical dashed line is placed in 2010
to indicate the change since AR5. Shares of electricity produced and share of passenger vehicle fleet are indicated
in text for 2020 based on provisional data, i.e., percentage of total electricity production (for PV, onshore wind,
offshore wind, CSP) and of total stock of passenger vehicles (for electric vehicles). The electricity production
share reflects different capacity factors; e.g., for the same amount of installed capacity, wind produces about twice
as much electricity as solar PV. {2.5, 6.4}
Renewable energy and battery technologies were selected as illustrative examples because they have recently
shown rapid changes in costs and adoption, and because consistent data are available. Other mitigation options
assessed in the report are not included as they do not meet these criteria.
B.5
There has been a consistent expansion of policies and laws addressing mitigation since
AR5. This has led to the avoidance of emissions that would otherwise have occurred and increased
investment in low-GHG technologies and infrastructure. Policy coverage of emissions is uneven
across sectors. Progress on the alignment of financial flows towards the goals of the Paris
Agreement remains slow and tracked climate finance flows are distributed unevenly across
regions and sectors. (
high confidence
) {5.6, 13.2, 13.4, 13.5, 13.6, 13.9, 14.3, 14.4, 14.5, Cross-
Chapter Box 10 in Chapter 14, 15.3, 15.5}
B.5.1
The Kyoto Protocol led to reduced emissions in some countries and was instrumental in
building national and international capacity for GHG reporting, accounting and emissions markets (
high
confidence
). At least 18 countries that had Kyoto targets for the first commitment period have had
sustained absolute emission reductions for at least a decade from 2005, of which two were countries
with economies in transition (
very high confidence
)
.
The Paris Agreement, with near universal
participation, has led to policy development and target-setting at national and sub-national levels, in
particular in relation to mitigation, as well as enhanced transparency of climate action and support
(
medium confidence
). {14.3, 14.6}
B.5.2
The application of diverse policy instruments for mitigation at the national and sub-national
levels has grown consistently across a range of sectors (
high confidence
). By 2020, over 20% of global
GHG emissions were covered by carbon taxes or emissions trading systems, although coverage and
prices have been insufficient to achieve deep reductions (
medium confidence
). By 2020, there were
‘direct’ climate laws focused primarily on GHG reductions in 56 countries covering 53% of global
emissions (
medium confidence
). Policy coverage remains limited for emissions from agriculture and
Subject to copyedit
SPM-14
Total pages: 63