resources in social and institutional systems can lead to poorly coordinated responses, thus reducing the
potential for maximising mitigation and adaptation benefits, and increasing risk (
high confidence
).
{12.6, 13.8, 17.1, 17.3}
D.3
Enhanced mitigation and broader action to shift development pathways towards
sustainability will have distributional consequences within and between countries. Attention to
equity and broad and meaningful participation of all relevant actors in decision-making at all
scales can build social trust, and deepen and widen support for transformative changes. (
high
confidence
) {3.6, 4.2, 4.5, 5.2, 13.2, 17.3, 17.4}
D.3.1
Countries at all stages of economic development seek to improve the well-being of people, and
their development priorities reflect different starting points and contexts. Different contexts include
social, economic, environmental, cultural, or political conditions, resource endowment, capabilities,
international environment, and history. The enabling conditions for shifting development pathways
towards increased sustainability will therefore also differ, giving rise to different needs. (
high
confidence
) (Figure SPM.2) {1.6, 1.7, 2.4, 2.6, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in Chapter 4, 4.3.2, 17.4}
D.3.2
Ambitious mitigation pathways imply large and sometimes disruptive changes in economic
structure, with significant distributional consequences, within and between countries. Equity remains a
central element in the UN climate regime, notwithstanding shifts in differentiation between states over
time and challenges in assessing fair shares. Distributional consequences within and between countries
include shifting of income and employment during the transition from high to low emissions activities.
While some jobs may be lost, low-emissions development can also open more opportunities to enhance
skills and create more jobs that last, with differences across countries and sectors. Integrated policy
packages can improve the ability to integrate considerations of equity, gender equality and justice. (
high
confidence
). {1.4, 1.6, 3.6, 4.2, 5.2, Box 11.1, 14.3, 15.2, 15.5, 15.6}
D.3.3
Inequalities in the distribution of emissions and in the impacts of mitigation policies within
countries affect social cohesion and the acceptability of mitigation and other environmental policies.
Equity and just transitions can enable deeper ambitions for accelerated mitigation. Applying just
transition principles and implementing them through collective and participatory decision-making
processes is an effective way of integrating equity principles into policies at all scales, in different ways
depending on national circumstances. (
medium confidence
) This is already taking place in many
countries and regions, as national just transition commissions or task forces, and related national
policies, have been established in several countries. A multitude of actors, networks, and movements
are engaged. (
high confidence
) {1.6, 1.7, 2.4, 2.6, 4.5, 13.2, 13.9, 14.3, 14.5}
D.3.4
Broadening equitable access to domestic and international finance, technologies that facilitate
mitigation, and capacity, while explicitly addressing needs can further integrate equity and justice into
national and international policies and act as a catalyst for accelerating mitigation and shifting
development pathways (
medium confidence
). The consideration of ethics and equity can help address
the uneven distribution of adverse impacts associated with 1.5°C and higher levels of global warming,
in all societies (
high confidence
). Consideration of climate justice can help to facilitate shifting
development pathways towards sustainability, including through equitable sharing of benefits and
burdens of mitigation, increasing resilience to the impacts of climate change, especially for vulnerable
countries and communities, and equitably supporting those in need (
high
confidence
). {1.4, 1.6, 1.7,
Subject to copyedit
SPM-56
Total pages: 63