confidence
). Some of these changes could lead to induced demand for transport and energy services,
which may decrease their GHG emissions reduction potential (
medium confidence
). {5.3, 10.2, 10.8}
C.8.3
Electric vehicles powered by low-GHG emissions electricity have large potential to reduce
land-based transport GHG emissions, on a life cycle basis (
high confidence
). Costs of electrified
vehicles, including automobiles, two and three wheelers, and buses are decreasing and their adoption is
accelerating, but they require continued investments in supporting infrastructure to increase scale of
deployment (
high confidence
). Advances in battery technologies could facilitate the electrification of
heavy-duty trucks and complement conventional electric rail systems (
medium confidence
). There are
growing concerns about critical minerals needed for batteries. Material and supply diversification
strategies, energy and material efficiency improvements, and circular material flows can reduce the
environmental footprint and material supply risks for battery production (
medium confidence
). Sourced
sustainably and with low-GHG emissions feedstocks, bio-based fuels, blended or unblended with fossil
fuels, can provide mitigation benefits, particularly in the short- and medium-term (
medium confidence
).
Low-GHG emissions hydrogen and hydrogen derivatives, including synthetic fuels, can offer mitigation
potential in some contexts and land-based transport segments (
medium confidence
). {3.4, 6.3, 10.3,
10.4, 10.7, 10.8, Box 10.6}
C.8.4
While efficiency improvements (e.g., optimised aircraft and vessel designs, mass reduction,
and propulsion system improvements) can provide some mitigation potential, additional CO
2
emissions
mitigation technologies for aviation and shipping will be required (
high confidence
). For aviation, such
technologies include high energy density biofuels (
high confidence
), and low-emission hydrogen and
synthetic fuels (
medium confidence
). Alternative fuels for shipping include low-emission hydrogen,
ammonia, biofuels, and other synthetic fuels (
medium confidence
)
.
Electrification could play a niche
role for aviation and shipping for short trips (
medium confidence
) and can reduce emissions from port
and airport operations (
high confidence
). Improvements to national and international governance
structures would further enable the decarbonisation of shipping and aviation (
medium confidence
). Such
improvements could include, for example, the implementation of stricter efficiency and carbon intensity
standards for the sectors (
medium confidence
). {10.3. 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, Box 10.5}
C.8.5
Substantial potential for GHG reductions, both direct and indirect, for the transport sector
largely depends on power sector decarbonisation, and low emissions feedstocks and production chains
(high confidence)
. Integrated transport and energy infrastructure planning and operations can enable
sectoral synergies and reduce the environmental, social, and economic impacts of decarbonising the
transport and energy sectors
(high confidence)
. Technology transfer and financing can support
developing countries leapfrogging or transitioning to low emissions transport systems thereby providing
multiple co-benefits (
high confidence
). {10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.7, 10.8}
C.9 AFOLU mitigation options, when sustainably implemented, can deliver large-scale GHG
emission reductions and enhanced removals, but cannot fully compensate for delayed action in
other sectors. In addition, sustainably sourced agricultural and forest products can be used
instead of more GHG intensive products in other sectors. Barriers to implementation and trade-
offs may result from the impacts of climate change, competing demands on land, conflicts with
food security and livelihoods, the complexity of land ownership and management systems, and
cultural aspects. There are many country-specific opportunities to provide co-benefits (such as
biodiversity conservation, ecosystem services, and livelihoods) and avoid risks (for example,
through adaptation to climate change). (
high confidence
) {7.4, 7.6, 7.7, 12.5, 12.6}
Subject to copyedit
SPM-42
Total pages: 63