Technical Summary
IPCC
AR6 WG
III
countries with limited capabilities might face greater barriers to innovation as a consequence. This
enhances the continued need
for capacity building. Ideas to improve the alignment of the global IPR
regime and addressing climate change include specific arrangements for least
-
developed countries,
case
-
by
-
case decision
-
making and patent
-
pooling institutions
.
{16.2.3, 16.5, Box 16.1
0}
Although some initiatives
have mobilised investments in developing countries, gaps in innovation
cooperation remain, including in the Paris Agreement instruments. These gaps could be filled by
enhancing financial support for international technology co
operation, by strengthening
cooperative approaches, and by helping build suitable capacity in developing countries across all
technological innovation system functions
(
high confidence
)
.
The implementation of current
arrangements of international cooperati
on for technology development and transfer, as well as capacity
building, are insufficient to meet climate objectives and contribute to sustainable development.
For
example, despite building a large market for mitigation technologies in developing countrie
s, the lack
of a systemic perspective in the implementation of the Clean Development Mechanism, operational
since the mid
-
2000s, has only led to some technology transfer, especially to larger developing countries,
but limited capacity building and minimal
technology development (
medium confidence)
. In the current
climate regime, a more systemic approach to innovation cooperation could be introduced by linking
technology institutions, such as the Technology Mechanism, and financial actors, such as the financ
ial
mechanism. {16.5.3}
Countries are exposed to sustainable development challenges in parallel with the challenges that
relate to climate change. Addressing both sets of challenges simultaneously presents multiple and
recurrent obstacles that systemic ap
proaches to technological change could help resolve, provided
they are well managed
(high confidence)
.
Obstacles include both entrenched power relations
dominated by vested interests that control and benefit from existing technologies, and governance
struc
tures that continue to reproduce unsustainable patterns of production and consumption
(
medium
confidence
). Studies also highlight the potential of cultural factors to strongly influence the pace and
direction of technological change. Sustainable solutions
require adoption and mainstreaming of locally
novel technologies that can meet local needs, and simultaneously address the SDGs. Acknowledging
the systemic nature of technological innovation
–
which involve many levels of actors, stages of
innovation and s
cales
–
can lead to new opportunities to shift development pathways towards
sustainability. {16.4, 16.5, 16.6}
Strategies for climate change mitigation can be most effective in accelerating transformative
change when actions taken to strengthen one set of
enabling conditions also reinforce and
strengthen the effectiveness of other enabling conditions
(medium confidence)
.
Applying transition
or system dynamics to decisions can help policy
makers take advantage of such high
-
leverage
intervention points, address the specific characteristics of technological stages, and respond to societal
dynamics. Inspiration can be drawn from the global unit cost reductions of solar PV, which were
accelerat
ed by a combination of factors interacting in a mutually reinforcing way across a
limited group
of countries (
high confidence
). {Box 16.2, Cross
-
Chapter Box 1
2
in Chapter 16
}
.
Transitions can be
accelerated by policies appropriately targeted, which may be
grouped in different ‘pillars of policy’.
The relative importance of different ‘pillars’ differs according to stage of the transition
.
(see Figure
TS.2
8
) {1.2.3
}