Chapter 1
IPCC
AR6 WGIII
international negotiations. It is also useful for engag
ing the wider public and international networks in
imagining low carbon societies
(e.g. Levy and Spicer 2013; Milkoreit 2017; Nikoleris et al. 2017;
Wapner and Elver 2017; Bengtsson Sonesson et al. 2019; Fatemi
et al. 2020)
. Experimentation also
represents an important source of governance innovation and capability
-
formation, linked to global
knowledge and technology flows, which could reshape emergent socio
-
technical regimes and so
contribute to alternative
development pathways
(Berkhout et al. 2010; Roberts et al. 2018; Turnheim et
al. 2018; Lo and Castán Broto 2019)
.
1.10
Conclusions
Global conditions have changed substantially since the IPCCs Fifth Assessment in 2014. The Paris
Agreement and the SDGs provided a new international context, but global intergovernmental
cooperation has been under intense stress. Growing direct impacts of
climate change are unambiguous
and movements of protest and activism
–
in countries and transnational organisations at many levels
–
have grown. Global emissions growth had slowed but not stopped up to 2018/19, albeit with more
diverse national trends. Gr
owing numbers of countries have adopted ‘net zero’
CO
2
and/or GHG
emission goals and decarbonisation or low carbon growth strategies, but
the current
NDCs to 2030
collectively would barely reduce global emissions below present levels (1.3.3).
.
An unfolding
technology revolution is making significant contributions in some countries, but as yet its global impact
is limited.
Global climate change can only be tackled within, and
if integrated with, the wider context
of sustainable development, and related social goals including equity concerns. Countries and their
populations have many conflicting priorities. Developing countries in particular have multiple urgent
needs associate
d with earlier stages of sustainable development as reflected in the non
-
climate SDGs.
Developed countries are amongst the most unsustainable in terms of overall consumption, but also face
social constraints particularly arising from distributional impact
s of climate policies.
The assessment of the key drivers for, and barriers against mitigation undertaken in this chapter
underscore the complexity and multidimensional nature of climate mitigation. Historically, much of the
academic analysis of mitigatin
g climate change, particularly global approaches, has focused on
modelling costs and pathways, and discussion about ‘optimal’ policy instruments. Developments since
AR5 have continued to highlight the role of a wide range of factors intersecting the politi
cal, economic,
social and institutional domains. Yet despite such complexities, there are signs of progress emerging
from years of policy effort in terms of technology, social attitudes, emission reductions in some
countries, with tentative signs of impact
on the trajectory of global emissions.
The challenge remains
how best to urgently scale up and speed
-
up the climate mitigation effort at all scales
–
from local to
global
–
to achieve the level of mitigation needed to address the problem as indicated by c
limate science.
A related challenge is how to ensure that mitigation effort and any associated benefits of action
are
distributed fairly within and between countries and aligned to the overarching objective of global
sustainable development. Lastly
,
global
ly effective and efficient mitigation will require international
co
-
operation especially in the realm
s
of finance, and technology.
Multiple frameworks of analytic assessment, adapted to the realities of climate change mitigation, are
therefore required. W
e identified four main groups.
Aggregate economic
frameworks
–
including
environmental costs or goals, and with due attention to implied behavioural, distributional and dynamic
assumptions
-
can provide insights about trade
-
offs, cost
-
effectiveness and pol
icies for delivering
agreed goals.
Ethical frameworks
are equally essential to inform both international and domestic
discourse and decisions, including the relationship with international (and intergenerational)
responsibilities, related financial systems
, and domestic policy design in all countries. Explicit
Do Not Cite, Quote or Distribute
1
-
61
Total pages:
106