available and emerging mitigation options. (
high confidence
) {11.6}
C.6 Urban areas can create opportunities to increase resource efficiency and significantly
reduce GHG emissions through the systemic transition of infrastructure and urban form through
low-emission development pathways towards net-zero emissions. Ambitious mitigation efforts for
established, rapidly growing and emerging cities will encompass 1) reducing or changing energy
and material consumption, 2) electrification, and 3) enhancing carbon uptake and storage in the
urban environment. Cities can achieve net-zero emissions, but only if emissions are reduced
within and outside of their administrative boundaries through supply chains, which will have
beneficial cascading effects across other sectors. (
very high confidence
) {8.2, 8.3, 8.4, 8.5, 8.6,
Figure 8.21, 13.2}
C.6.1
In modelled scenarios, global consumption-based urban CO
2
and CH
4
emissions [FOOTNOTE
15] are projected to rise from 29 GtCO
2
-eq in 2020 to 34 GtCO
2
-eq in 2050 with moderate mitigation
efforts (intermediate GHG emissions, SSP2-4.5), and up to 40 GtCO
2
-eq in 2050 with low mitigation
efforts (high GHG emissions, SSP 3-7.0). With ambitious and immediate mitigation efforts, including
high levels of electrification and improved energy and material efficiency, global consumption-based
urban CO
2
and CH
4
emissions could be reduced to 3 GtCO
2
-eq in 2050 in the modelled scenario with
very low GHG emissions (SSP1-1.9). [FOOTNOTE 57] (
medium confidence
) {8.3}
FOOTNOTE 15
: This estimate is based on consumption-based accounting, including both direct
emissions from within urban areas, and indirect emissions from outside urban areas related to the
production of electricity, goods and services consumed in cities. These estimates include all CO
2
and
CH
4
emission categories except for aviation and marine bunker fuels, land-use change, forestry and
agriculture. {8.1, Annex I: Glossary}
FOOTNOTE 57
: These scenarios have been assessed by WGI to correspond to intermediate, high and
very low GHG emissions.
C.6.2
The potential and sequencing of mitigation strategies to reduce GHG emissions will vary
depending on a city’s land use, spatial form, development level, and state of urbanisation (
high
confidence
). Strategies for established cities to achieve large GHG emissions savings include efficiently
improving, repurposing or retrofitting the building stock, targeted infilling, and supporting non-
motorised (e.g., walking, bicycling) and public transport. Rapidly growing cities can avoid future
emissions by co-locating jobs and housing to achieve compact urban form, and by leapfrogging or
transitioning to low-emissions technologies. New and emerging cities will have significant
infrastructure development needs to achieve high quality of life, which can be met through energy
efficient infrastructures and services, and people-centred urban design. (
high confidence).
For cities,
three broad mitigation strategies have been found to be effective when implemented concurrently: i)
reducing or changing energy and material use towards more sustainable production and consumption;
ii) electrification in combination with switching to low-emission energy sources; and iii) enhancing
carbon uptake and storage in the urban environment, for example through bio-based building materials,
permeable surfaces, green roofs, trees, green spaces, rivers, ponds and lakes [FOOTNOTE 58]. (
very
high confidence
) {5.3, Figure 5.7, Table SM5.2, 8.2, 8.4, 8.6, Figure 8.21, 9.4, 9.6, 10.2}
FOOTNOTE 58
: These examples are considered to be a subset of nature-based solutions or ecosystem-
based approaches.
Subject to copyedit
SPM-39
Total pages: 63