constraints and managing potential trade-offs (
high confidence
). Land-use decisions are often spread
across a wide range of landowners; demand-side measures depend on billions of consumers in diverse
contexts. Barriers to the implementation of AFOLU mitigation include insufficient institutional and
financial support, uncertainty over long-term additionality and trade-offs, weak governance, insecure
land ownership, the low incomes and the lack of access to alternative sources of income, and the risk
of reversal. Limited access to technology, data, and know-how is a barrier to implementation. Research
and development are key for all measures. For example, measures for the mitigation of agricultural CH
4
and N
2
O emissions with emerging technologies show promising results. However the mitigation of
agricultural CH
4
and N
2
O emissions is still constrained by cost, the diversity and complexity of
agricultural systems, and by increasing demands to raise agricultural yields, and increasing demand for
livestock products. (
high confidence
) {7.4, 7.6}
C.9.4
Net costs of delivering 5-6 Gt CO
2
yr
-1
of forest related carbon sequestration and emission
reduction as assessed with sectoral models are estimated to reach to ~USD400 billion yr
-1
by 2050. The
costs of other AFOLU mitigation measures are highly context specific. Financing needs in AFOLU,
and in particular in forestry, include both the direct effects of any changes in activities as well as the
opportunity costs associated with land use change. Enhanced monitoring, reporting and verification
capacity and the rule of law are crucial for land-based mitigation, in combination with policies also
recognising interactions with wider ecosystem services, could enable engagement by a wider array of
actors, including private businesses, NGOs, and Indigenous Peoples and local communities. (
medium
confidence
) {7.6, 7.7}
C.9.5
Context specific policies and measures have been effective in demonstrating the delivery of
AFOLU carbon sequestration and GHG emission reduction options but the above-mentioned
constraints hinder large scale implementation (
medium confidence
). Deploying land-based mitigation
can draw on lessons from experience with regulations, policies, economic incentives, payments (e.g.,
for biofuels, control of nutrient pollution, water regulations, conservation and forest carbon, ecosystem
services, and rural livelihoods), and from diverse forms of knowledge such as Indigenous knowledge,
local knowledge and scientific knowledge. Indigenous Peoples, private forest owners, local farmers and
communities manage a significant share of global forests and agricultural land and play a central role
in land-based mitigation options. Scaling successful policies and measures relies on governance that
emphasises integrated land use planning and management framed by SDGs, with support for
implementation. (
high confidence
) {7.4, Box 7.2, 7.6}
C.10
Demand-side mitigation encompasses changes in infrastructure use, end-use technology
adoption, and socio-cultural and behavioural change. Demand-side measures and new ways of
end-use service provision can reduce global GHG emissions in end use sectors by 40-70% by 2050
compared to baseline scenarios, while some regions and socioeconomic groups require additional
energy and resources. Demand side mitigation response options are consistent with improving
basic wellbeing for all. (
high confidence
) (Figure SPM.6) {5.3, 5.4, Figure 5.6, Figure 5.14, 8.2, 9.4,
10.2, 11.3, 11.4, 12.4, Figure TS.22}
C.10.1
Infrastructure design and access, and technology access and adoption, including information
and communication technologies, influence patterns of demand and ways of providing services, such
as mobility, shelter, water, sanitation, and nutrition. Illustrative global low demand scenarios,
accounting for regional differences, indicate that more efficient end-use energy conversion can improve
services while reducing the need for upstream energy by 45% by 2050 compared to 2020. Demand-side
mitigation potential differs between and within regions, and some regions and populations require
additional energy, capacity, and resources for human wellbeing. The lowest population quartile by
Subject to copyedit
SPM-44
Total pages: 63