include: long-term public spending commitments, pricing reform; and investment in education and
training, natural capital, R&D and infrastructure (
high confidence
). They can meet short-term economic
goals while reducing emissions and shifting development pathways towards sustainability (
medium
confidence
). Infrastructure investments can be designed to promote low-emissions futures that meet
development needs (
medium confidence
).
{Cross Chapter Box 7 in Chapter 4, 5.4, 5.6, 8.5, 13.6, 13.9,
16.3, 16.5, 16.6}
E.4.6
National policies to support technology development and diffusion, and participation in
international markets for emission reduction, can bring positive spill-over effects for other countries
(
medium confidence
), although reduced demand for fossil fuels could result in costs to exporting
countries (
high confidence
). There is no consistent evidence that current emission trading systems have
led to significant emissions leakage, which can be attributed to design features aimed at minimising
competitiveness effects among other reasons (
medium confidence
). {13.6, 13.7, 13.8, 16.2, 16.3, 16.4}
E.5 Tracked financial flows fall short of the levels needed to achieve mitigation goals across
all sectors and regions. The challenge of closing gaps is largest in developing countries as a whole.
Scaling up mitigation financial flows can be supported by clear policy choices and signals from
governments and the international community. (
high confidence
) Accelerated international
financial cooperation is a critical enabler of low-GHG and just transitions, and can address
inequities in access to finance and the costs of, and vulnerability to, the impacts of climate change
(
high confidence
). {15.2, 15.3, 15.4, 15.5, 15.6}
E.5.1
Average annual modelled investment requirements for 2020 to 2030 in scenarios that limit
warming to 2°C or 1.5°C are a factor of three to six greater than current levels, and total mitigation
investments (public, private, domestic and international) would need to increase across all sectors and
regions (
medium confidence
). Mitigation investment gaps are wide for all sectors, and widest for the
AFOLU sector in relative terms and for developing countries [FOOTNOTE 77] (
high
confidence
)
.
Financing and investment requirements for adaptation, reduction of losses and damages, general
infrastructure, regulatory environment and capacity building, and climate-responsive social protection
further exacerbate the magnitude of the challenges for developing countries to attract financing (
high
confidence
). {3.2, 14.4, 15.1, 15.2, 15.3, 15.4, 15.5}
FOOTNOTE 77
: In modelled pathways, regional investments are projected to occur when and where
they are most cost-effective to limit global warming. The model quantifications help to identify high-
priority areas for cost-effective investments, but do not provide any indication on who would finance
the regional investments.
E.5.2
There is sufficient global capital and liquidity to close global investment gaps, given the size
of the global financial system, but there are barriers to redirect capital to climate action both within and
outside the global financial sector, and in the macroeconomic headwinds facing developing regions.
Barriers to the deployment of commercial finance from within the financial sector as well as
macroeconomic considerations include: inadequate assessment of climate-related risks and investment
opportunities, regional mismatch between available capital and investment needs, home bias factors,
country indebtedness levels, economic vulnerability, and limited institutional capacities (
high
confidence
). Challenges from outside the financial sector include: limited local capital markets;
unattractive risk-return profiles, in particular due to missing or weak regulatory environments consistent
with ambition levels; limited institutional capacity to ensure safeguards; standardization, aggregation,
Subject to copyedit
SPM-61
Total pages: 63