mitigation options and the SDGs. Figure SPM.8 presents a summary of the chapter-level assessment for selected
mitigation options (see Supplementary Material Table 17.1 for the underlying assessment). The last column
provides a line of sight to the sectoral chapters, which provide details on context specificity and dependence of
interactions on the scale of implementation. Blank cells indicate that interactions have not been assessed due to
limited literature. They do not indicate the absence of interactions between mitigation options and the SDGs.
Confidence levels depend on the quality of evidence and level of agreement in the underlying literature assessed
by the sectoral chapters. Where both synergies and trade-offs exist, the lower of the confidence levels for these
interactions is used.
Some mitigation options may have applications in more than one sector or system. The interactions between
mitigation options and the SDGs might differ depending on the sector or system, and also on the context and the
scale of implementation. Scale of implementation particularly matters when there is competition for scarce
resources.
{6.3, 6.4, 6.7, 7.3, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 8.2, 8.4, 8.6, Figure 8.4, Table SM8.1, Table SM8.2, 9.4, 9.5, 9.8, Table 9.5, 10.3,
10.4, 10.5, 10.6, 10.8, Table 10.3, 11.5, 12.5, 17.3, Figure 17.1, Table SM17.1, Annex II Part IV Section 12}
D.2 There is a strong link between sustainable development, vulnerability and climate risks.
Limited economic, social and institutional resources often result in high vulnerability and low
adaptive capacity, especially in developing countries
(medium confidence)
. Several response
options deliver both mitigation and adaptation outcomes, especially in human settlements , land
management, and in relation to ecosystems. However, land and aquatic ecosystems can be
adversely affected by some mitigation actions, depending on their implementation (
medium
confidence
). Coordinated cross-sectoral policies and planning can maximise synergies and avoid
or reduce trade-offs between mitigation and adaptation (
high confidence
). {3.7, 4.4, 13.8, 17.3,
WG II}
D.2.1
Sustainable urban planning and infrastructure design including green roofs and facades,
networks of parks and open spaces, management of urban forests and wetlands, urban agriculture, and
water-sensitive design can deliver both mitigation and adaptation benefits in settlements (
medium
confidence
). These options can also reduce flood risks, pressure on urban sewer systems, urban heat
island effects, and can deliver health benefits from reduced air pollution (
high confidence
). There could
also be trade-offs. For example, increasing urban density to reduce travel demand, could imply high
vulnerability to heat waves and flooding (
high confidence
). (Figure SPM.8) {3.7, 8.2, 8.4, 12.5, 13.8,
17.3}
D.2.2
Land-related mitigation options with potential co-benefits for adaptation include agroforestry,
cover crops, intercropping, and perennial plants, thus restoring natural vegetation and rehabilitating
degraded land. These can enhance resilience by maintaining land productivity and protecting and
diversifying livelihoods. Restoration of mangroves and coastal wetlands sequester carbon, while also
reducing coastal erosion and protecting against storm surges, thus, reduce the risks from sea level rise
and extreme weather. (
high confidence
) {4.4, 7.4, 7.6, 12.5, 13.8}
D.2.3
Some mitigation options can increase competition for scarce resources including land, water
and biomass. Consequently, these can also reduce adaptive capacity, especially if deployed at larger
scale and with high expansion rates thus exacerbating existing risks in particular where land and water
resources are very limited. Examples include the large-scale or poorly planned deployment of
bioenergy, biochar, and afforestation of naturally unforested land. (
high confidence
) {12.5, 17.3}
D.2.4
Coordinated policies, equitable partnerships and integration of adaptation and mitigation within
and across sectors can maximise synergies and minimise trade-offs and thereby enhance the support for
climate action (
medium confidence
). Even if extensive global mitigation efforts are implemented, there
Subject to copyedit
SPM-55
Total pages: 63