Economy-wide packages, consistent with national circumstances, can meet short-term economic
goals while reducing emissions and shifting development pathways towards sustainability
(
medium confidence
). {13.6, 13.7, 13.9, 16.3, 16.4, 16.6, Cross-Chapter Box 5 in Chapter 4}
E.4.1
A wide range of regulatory instruments at the sectoral level have proven effective in reducing
emissions. These instruments, and broad-based approaches including relevant economic
instruments[FOOTNOTE 76], are complementary. (
high confidence
) Regulatory instruments that are
designed to be implemented with flexibility mechanisms can reduce costs (
medium confidence
).
Scaling up and enhancing the use of regulatory instruments, consistent with national circumstances,
could improve mitigation outcomes in sectoral applications, including but not limited to renewable
energy, land-use and zoning, building codes, vehicle and energy efficiency, fuel standards, and low-
emissions industrial processes and materials (
high confidence
). {6.7, 7.6, 8.4, 9.9, 10.4, 11.5, 11.6,
13.6}
FOOTNOTE
76: Economic instruments are structured to provide a financial incentive to reduce
emissions and include, among others, market- and price-based instruments.
E.4.2
Economic instruments have been effective in reducing emissions, complemented by regulatory
instruments mainly at the national and also sub-national and regional level (
high confidence
). Where
implemented, carbon pricing instruments have incentivized low-cost emissions reduction measures, but
have been less effective, on their own and at prevailing prices during the assessment period, to promote
higher-cost measures necessary for further reductions (
medium confidence
). Equity and distributional
impacts of such carbon pricing instruments can be addressed by using revenue from carbon taxes or
emissions trading to support low-income households, among other approaches (
high confidence
).
Practical experience has informed instrument design and helped to improve predictability,
environmental effectiveness, economic efficiency, distributional goals and social acceptance (
high
confidence
). Removing fossil fuel subsidies would reduce emissions, improve public revenue and
macroeconomic performance, and yield other environmental and sustainable development benefits;
subsidy removal may have adverse distributional impacts especially on the most economically
vulnerable groups which, in some cases can be mitigated by measures such as re-distributing revenue
saved, all of which depend on national circumstances (
high confidence
); fossil fuel subsidy removal is
projected by various studies to reduce global CO
2
emissions by 1-4%, and GHG emissions by up to
10% by 2030, varying across regions (
medium confidence
). {6.3, 13.6}
E.4.3
Low-emission technological innovation is strengthened through the combination of dedicated
technology-push policies and investments (e.g., for scientific training, R&D, demonstration), with
tailored demand-pull policies (e.g., standards, feed-in tariffs, taxes), which create incentives and market
opportunities. Developing countries’ abilities to deploy low-emission technologies, seize socio-
economic benefits and manage trade-offs would be enhanced with increased financial resources and
capacity for innovation which are currently concentrated in developed countries, alongside technology
transfer.
(high confidence)
{16.2, 16.3, 16.4, 16.5}
E.4.4
Effective policy packages would be comprehensive in coverage, harnessed to a clear vision for
change, balanced across objectives, aligned with specific technology and system needs, consistent in
terms of design and tailored to national circumstances. They are better able to realise synergies and
avoid trade-offs across climate and development objectives. Examples include: emissions reductions
from buildings through a mix of efficiency targets, building codes, appliance performance standards,
information provision, carbon pricing, finance and technical assistance; and industrial GHG emissions
reductions through innovation support, market creation and capacity building. (
high confidence
) {4.4,
6.7, 9.9, 11.6, 13.7, 13.9, 16.3, 16.4}
Subject to copyedit
SPM-60
Total pages: 63