Chapter 1
IPCC
AR6 WGIII
Thus,
developments since AR5 highlight the complexity of the mitigation challenge
.
There is no far
-
sighted,
globally optimising decision
-
maker and indeed climate policymaking at all levels is subject to conflicting
pressures in
multiple ways
.
The next section overviews the drivers and constraints.
1.4
Drivers and Constraints of
Climate Mitigation and System
Transitions/Transformation
This section provides brief assessment of key factors and dynamics that drive, shape and or limit climate
mitigation in
(i)
Economic factors
: which include sectors and services; trade and leakage; finance and
investment; and technological innovation; (ii)
Socio
-
political issues
; which include political economy;
social innovation and equity and fairness; and (iii)
Institutional factors
, which c
omprise policy, legal
frameworks and international co
-
operation.
AR 5 introduced six “enabling conditions” for shifting development pathways which are presented in
Chapter 4 of this report and some of which overlap with the drivers reviewed here. However,
the
terminology of drivers and constraints have been chosen here to reflect the fact that each of these factors
can serve as an enabling condition or a constraint to ambitious climate action depending on the context and
how they are deployed. Often one see
s the factors exerting both push and pull forces at the same time in
the same and across different scales. For example, finance and investments can serve as a barrier or an
enabler
to climate action
(Battiston et al. 2021)
. Similar
ly, political economy factors can align in favour of
ambitious climate action or act in ways that inhibit strong co
-
operation and low carbon transition. The other
key insight from the assessment of the system drivers and constraints undertaken below is tha
t none of the
factors or conditions by themselves is more or less important than the others. In addition to being deeply
intertwined all the factors matter in different measures with each exacting more or less force depending on
prevailing social, economic
, cultural and political context. Often achieving accelerated mitigation would
require effort to bring several of the factors in alignment in and across multiple levels of political or
governance scales.
1.4.1
Services
,
sectors
and urbanisation
Human activities
drive emissions primarily through the demand for a wide range of services such as food,
shelter, heating/cooling, goods, travel, communication, and entertainment. This demand is fulfilled by
various activities often grouped into sectors such as agricultu
re, industry and commerce. The literature
uses a wide range of sectoral definitions to organize data and analysis (Chapter 2). Energy sectors are
typically organised into primary energy producers, energy transformation processes (such as power
generation,
fuel refining), and major energy users such as buildings, industry, transport (Chapters 2, 5).
Other research (Chapter 8) organizes data around interacting urban and rural human activities. Land
-
based
activities can be organized into agriculture, forestry
, and other land use (AFOLU), or land use, land use
change and forestry (LULUCF) (Chapter 7). Each set of sectoral definitions and analysis offers its own
insights.
Sectoral perspectives help to identify and understand the drivers of emissions, opportuniti
es for emissions
mitigation, and interactions with resources, other goals and other sectors, including the co
-
evolution of
systems across scales
(Moss et al.
2016; Kyle et al. 2016; Mori et al. 2017; IPBES 2019)
.
Interactions
between sectors and agents pursuing multiple goals is a major theme pervading this assessment.
Do Not Cite, Quote or Distribute
1
-
22
Total pages:
106