emissions strategies
Panel a and b
show the development of global GHG and CO
2
emissions in modelled global pathways (upper sub-
panels) and the associated timing of when GHG and CO
2
emissions reach net zero (lower sub-panels). Panels c
and d show the development of global CH
4
and N
2
O emissions, respectively. Coloured ranges denote the 5th to
95th percentile across pathways. The red ranges depict emissions pathways assuming policies that were
implemented by the end of 2020 and pathways assuming implementation of NDCs (announced prior to COP26).
Ranges of modelled pathways that limit warming to 1.5
o
C (>50%) with no or limited overshoot are shown in light
blue (category C1) and pathways that limit warming to 2
o
C (>67%) are shown in light purple (category C3). The
grey range comprises all assessed pathways (C1-C8) from the 5th percentile of the lowest warming category (C1)
to the 95th percentile of the highest warming category (C8). The modelled pathway ranges are compared to the
emissions from two pathways illustrative of high emissions (CurPol and ModAct) and five Illustrative Mitigation
Pathways (IMPs): IMP-LD, IMP-Ren, IMP-SP, IMP-Neg and IMP-GS. Emissions are harmonised to the same
2015 base year. The vertical error bars in 2015 show the 5-95th percentile uncertainty range of the non-harmonised
emissions across the pathways, and the uncertainty range, and median value, in emission estimates for 2015 and
2019. The vertical error bars in 2030 (panel a) depict the assessed range of the NDCs,as announced prior to COP26
(see Figure SPM.4, FOOTNOTE 24) .
Panel e
shows the sectoral contributions of CO
2
and non-CO
2
emissions sources and sinks at the time when net
zero CO
2
emissions are reached in the IMPs. Positive and negative emissions for different IMPs are compared to
the GHG emissions from the year 2019. Energy supply (neg.) includes BECCS and DACCS. DACCS features in
only two of the five IMPs (IMP-REN, IMP-GS) and contributes <1 % and 64%, respectively, to the net negative
emissions in Energy Supply (neg.).
Panel f
shows the contribution of different sectors and sources to the emissions reductions from a 2019 baseline
for reaching net zero GHG emissions. Bars denote the median emissions reductions for all pathways that reach
net zero GHG emissions. The whiskers indicate the p5-p95 range. The contributions of the service sectors
(transport, buildings, industry) are split into direct (demand-side) as well as indirect (supply-side) CO
2
emissions
Subject to copyedit
SPM-35
Total pages: 63