Technical Summary
IPCC
AR6 WG
III
TS. 6.2
International cooperation
International cooperation is having positive and
measurable results (
high confidence
).
The Kyoto
Protocol led to measurable and substantial avoided emissions, including in 20 countries with Kyoto first
commitment period targets that have experienced a decade of declining absolute emissions. It also built
national capacity for GHG accounting, catalysed the creation of GHG markets, and increased
investments in low
-
carbon technologies. Other international agreements and institutions have led to
avoided CO
2
emissions from land
-
use practices, as well as avoide
d emissions of some non
-
CO
2
greenhouse gases
.
(
medium confidence
) {14.3, 14.5, 14.6}
New forms of international cooperation have emerged since AR5 in line with an evolving
understanding of effective mitigation policies, processes, and
institutions. Both new and pre
-
existing forms of co
-
operation are vital for achieving climate mitigation goals in the context of
sustainable development (
high confidence
)
. While previous IPCC assessments have noted important
synergies between the outcomes
of climate mitigation and achieving sustainable development
objectives, there now appear to be synergies between the two processes themselves (
medium
confidence
). Since AR5, international cooperation has shifted towards facilitating national level
mitigati
on action through numerous channels
,
including
though
processes established under the
UNFCCC regime and through regional and sectoral agreements and organisations. {14.2, 14.3, 14.5,
14.6}
Participation in international agreements and transboundary network
s is associated with the
adoption of climate policies at the national and sub
-
national levels, as well as by non
-
state actors
(
high confidence
).
International cooperation helps countries achieve long
-
term mitigation targets when
it supports development and
diffusion of low
-
carbon technologies, often at the level of individual
sectors, which can simultaneously lead to significant benefits in the areas of sustainable development
and equity (
medium confidence
). {14.2, 14.3, 14.5, 14.6}
International cooperatio
n under the UN climate regime
took
an important new direction with the
entry into force of the 2015 Paris Agreement, which strengthened the objective of the UN climate
regime, including its long
-
term temperature goal, while adopting a different architectur
e to that
of the Kyoto Protocol (
high confidence
)
. The core national commitments under the Kyoto Protocol
were
legally binding quantified emission targets for developed countries tied to well
-
defined
mechanisms for monitoring and enforcement. By contrast,
the commitments under the Paris Agreement
are primarily procedural, extend to all parties, and are designed to trigger domestic policies and
measures, enhance transparency, and stimulate climate investments, particularly in developing
countries, and to lea
d iteratively to rising levels of ambition across all countries. Issues of equity remain
of central importance in the UN climate regime, notwithstanding shifts in the operationalisation of
‘common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabili
ties’ from Kyoto to Paris. {14.3}
There are conflicting views on whether the Paris Agreement’s commitments and mechanisms will
lead to the attainment of its stated goals
(
medium confidence
)
.
Arguments in support of the Paris
Agreement are that the
processes it initiates and supports will in multiple ways lead, and indeed have
already led, to rising levels of ambition over time. The recent proliferation of national mid
-
century net
zero GHG targets can be attributed in part to the Paris Agreement. Mor
eover, its processes and
commitments will enhance countries’ abilities to achieve their stated level of ambition, particularly
among developing countries. Arguments against the Paris Agreement are that it lacks a mechanism to
review the adequacy of individ
ual Parties’ nationally determined contributions (NDCs), that
collectively current NDCs are inconsistent in their level of ambition with achieving the Paris
Agreement’s
long
-
term
temperature goal, that its processes will not lead to sufficiently rising lev
els of
ambition in the NDCs, and that NDCs will not be achieved because the targets, policies and measures
they contain are not legally binding at the international level. To some extent, arguments on both sides