Technical Summary
IPCC
AR6 WG III
START BOX
TS.7 HERE
Box TS.7 The Long
-
term Economic Benefits of Mitigation from Avoided Climate Change
Impacts
Integrated studies use either a cost
-
effectiveness analysis (CEA) approach (minimising the total
mitigation costs of achieving a given policy goal) or a cost
-
benefit analysis (CBA) approach
(balancing the cost and benefits of climate action).
In the majori
ty of studies that have produced the
body of work on the cost of mitigation assessed in this report, a CEA approach is adopted, and the
feedbacks of climate change impacts on the economic development pathways are not accounted for.
This
omission of climate
impacts
leads to overly optimistic economic projections in the reference
scenarios,
in particular in reference scenarios with no or limited mitigation action where the extent of
global warming is the greatest. Mitigation cost estimates computed against no
or limited policy
reference scenarios therefore omit economic benefits brought by avoided climate change impact along
mitigation pathways. {1.7, 3.6.1}
The difference in aggregate economic impacts from climate change between two given temperature
levels r
epresents the aggregate economic benefits arising from avoided climate change impacts due to
mitigation action. Estimates of these benefits vary widely, depending on the methodology used and
impacts included, as well as on assumed socioeconomic development
conditions, which shape exposure
and vulnerability. The aggregate economic benefits of avoiding climate impacts increase with the
stringency of the mitigation.
Global economic impact studies with regional estimates find large
differences across regions, w
ith developing and transitional economies typically more vulnerable.
Furthermore, avoided impacts for poorer households and poorer countries represent a smaller share in
aggregate quantifications expressed in GDP terms or monetary terms, compared to their
influence on
well
-
being and welfare (
high confidence
)
.
{3.6.2, Cross
-
Working Group Box 1
in Chapter 3
}
CBA analysis and
CBA integrated assessment models remain limited in their ability to represent all
damages from climate change, including non
-
monetary da
mages, and capture the uncertain and
heterogeneous nature of damages and the risk of catastrophic damages, such that other lines of evidence
should be considered in decision
-
making. However, emerging evidence suggests that, even without
accounting for co
-
b
enefits of mitigation on other sustainable development dimensions, the global
benefits of pathways
likely
to limit warming to 2°C outweigh global mitigation costs over the 21st
century (
medium confidence
). Depending on the study, the reason for this result
lies in assumptions of
economic damages from climate change in the higher end of available estimates, in the consideration
of risks of tipping
-
points or damages to natural capital and non
-
market goods, or in the combination of
updated representations of c
arbon cycle and climate modules, updated damage estimates and updated
representations of economic and mitigation dynamics. In the studies that perform a sensitivity analysis,
this result is found to be robust to a wide range of assumptions on social prefer
ences (in particular on
inequality aversion and pure rate of time preference),
and holds except if assumptions of economic
damages from climate change are in the lower end of available estimates and the pure rate of time
preference is in the higher range o
f values usually considered (typically above 1.5%).
However,
although such pathways bring overall net benefits over time (in terms of aggregate discounted present
value), they involve distributional consequences between and within generations. {3.6.2}
END BOX
TS.7 HERE